---
title: "Engineer's notebook as a cognitive device: Developing a realtime collaborative engineer's notebook iOS application."
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2023-03-01-paper-title-number-2
excerpt: ''
date: 2023-03-01
venue: 'Technology Engineering Teacher'
paperurl: 'https://h1yung.github.io'
citation: 'Han, J., Park, H. K., & Kelley, T. R. (2023). Engineer's notebook as a cognitive device: Developing a realtime collaborative engineer's notebook iOS application. Technology and Engineering Teacher, 82(5), 20-26.'
---

Engineering design has been central to technology educa- tion (Hill, 2006; ITEEA, 2020). As one example of instruc- tional strategies for technology education with an engineer- ing design focus, it is recommended to use an engineer’s notebook (Hill, 2006). This helps students sca!old engineering practices and e!ectively engage them in small-group design activities by motivating them to write and communicate (Hertel, Cunningham, & Kelly, 2017). According to Kelley (2011), “an engineer’s notebook captures an individual’s design thinking, sketches, field notes, etc., that occur as the designer seeks to study and ultimately solve the design problem” (p. 32). 

Currently, online collaborative platforms for designers are widely used as digital forms of an engineer’s notebook. However, tradi- tional forms are still valued as the medium of engineering design during the conceptual phase of design since a paper notebook and pen or pencil allow designers to freely note and sketch anything they wish to record, which develops designers’ design concepts and fosters creative ideas in a problem space (Hertel, Cunning- ham, & Kelly, 2017; Lakin, Wambaugh, Leifer, Cannon, & Sivard, 1989) (see Figure 3). Specifically, as future designers, pre-college students need to practice idea generation in an early design phase by defining problems, sketching ideas, and evaluating and judging design ideas with peers collaboratively (Kelley & Han, 2021) (see Figure 2). Concerning this, intelligent technologies can provide learners with more mindful tools that enhance their cognitive skills; if we provide a more sophisticated program that can be used instead of pen and paper, such as an electronic notebook and sketchpad, students can experience the e!ects of mindful technology. Thus, the authors developed a Real-Time Collaborative Engineer’s Notebook iOS Application, which provides pre-college engineering technology students, who practice engineering design every day, a more a!ordable, portable, and functional electric de- vice that includes the fundamental roles of a traditional engineer’s notebook: sketch, note, design brief checklist (criteria and con- straints), and design decision (design matrix).